URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/12/01/jim-cramer-ai-trade-breaking-up.html
Date: 2025-12-01T23:31:35+0000
Headline: 

Monday - Friday, 6:00 - 7:00 PM ET

After years of largely trading together, stocks related to artificial intelligence and the data center are starting to move in different directions, CNBC's Jim Cramer said.

"The Google complex cohort roared while the OpenAI complex got hammered. Meanwhile, the hyperscalers with great balance sheets held up much better than the ones with strained balance sheets," he said. "Just keep in mind that things change very fast in the AI space, so what was true last month might not necessarily stay true this month or next year."

He pinpointed a difference in the performance of AI companies linked to OpenAI — like Nvidia, Oracle, Microsoft and AMD — and those affiliated with Alphabet — such as Broadcom and Celestica. He said latter cohort has seen a boost as some investors start to favor the newest iteration Gemini over ChatGPT. Wall Street Street at large is also growing concerned about OpenAI's massive spending commitments, Cramer continued.

Hyperscalers with strong balance sheets are starting to pull ahead, he continued, noting that companies like Alphabet, Meta and Amazon have the capacity to keep spending big on AI. However, Cramer added, Oracle, CoreWeave and Nebius have more strained balance sheets.

But he warned that the AI space is volatile and said it's possible another platform will surpass Gemini. Cramer also said he doesn't want to "paint with too broad of a brush here." For example, he noted that Nvidia got hit over worries about newfound competition and its ties to OpenAI. However, the AI giant also just reported a blowout quarter with strong guidance and demand for its products still exceeded supply, he continued.

The diversification of the AI trade is a good thing, Cramer suggested, saying it's positive that investors are starting to think more critically about which of these companies "deserves to be winners."

"In general, I think it's actually pretty healthy. I'm never going to root against higher stock prices," he said. "But there was always something unsettling about the entire AI cohort rallying in lockstep."

Click here to download Jim Cramer's Guide to Investing at no cost to help you build long-term wealth and invest smarter.

Sign up now for the CNBC Investing Club to follow Jim Cramer's every move in the market.

Disclaimer The CNBC Investing Club holds shares of Nvidia, Meta, Microsoft and Broadcom.

Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC

Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram

Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.

Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox

Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.

© 2025 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.

Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.

Data also provided by
